Today I'm going to show you an amazing scalping strategy that takes advantage of the first 90
minutes of the market open. It's called the quick flip scalper. It's repeatable. It's effective.
And best of all, it is simple. My name is Carl. I've been trading for 20 years. One of the biggest
things that I've learned is that the utmost majority of all the money that traders make
will take place in the first 90 minutes. For us traders, this is our bread and butter.
If you want to increase your chances of becoming a successful trader, you've got to master this
market open. And to master it, you've simply got to have the right trading strategy. Otherwise,
it's game over. In today's video, I'm going to show you how to use the quick flip scalper strategy
in just three simple steps. I will present it the exact same way it was shown to me back in 2011,
and the same way I have taught hundreds of other traders. We have all used it day in and day out
to make solid trades for years. Then after explaining the three-step strategy,
I will take that process and I will trade the quick flip scalper in a live market so that you
know how to apply it. Let's get started. I love this quick flip scalper. I've built a 15 plus
year trading career off of this strategy. Most people I show it to like it as well,
because it's straightforward and it doesn't require any complex structure.
Let's jump into the three steps. Step one is to box the opening range candle.
Let me show you how. Open whatever asset you are trading on a 15-minute chart. For this example,
I'm going to use Nasdaq 100, but it works with any asset. Just make sure it's a 15-minute chart.
From there, let the first 15 minutes of the market open pass, allowing that candle to
completely close. Once that candle has closed, use the box drawing tool to connect the highest
price point we see. This very top of the wick, which says 24675, we are going to connect that
with the lowest price point we see, which is 24502. We're going to box that range in and we're
going to extend it into the future. And that's all for step one. I told you it was going to be
simple. So this is all you need to do. Just box in the high to low range and then extend it.
Now let's move on to step number two, which is a crucial step. The step is to confirm that this
candle is a liquidity candle. Most likely it is, and I will explain why soon. And if it is,
we are on to something special. A liquidity candle is a fast aggressive candle moving up or down.
The direction doesn't matter. It's fast, it's aggressive and it's moving in one direction.
But it's more than just a candle. It's an emotional event and that is where the edge is.
When traders worldwide see these, their very first instinct is to chase into that strength
or weakness fearing that they will miss out on that trading opportunity. And that's exactly
what these candles and the price movements are designed to do, to pull in inexperienced retail
traders to create liquidity for the big institutions to get in and out of their trades. This price
movement actually needs to happen in order for those institutions to get in and out of their
positions. And that is why you'll see them almost every day. This often involves a stop hunt where
the price aggressively moves in one direction to trigger clusters of stop losses from us retail
traders. These triggered stops will create a liquidity pool, a liquidity pool that the
large institutions need in order to fill their positions without negatively affecting the price.
Without this engineered liquidity the big players wouldn't be able to execute their trades at least
not efficiently without negatively affecting their entry and exit levels. The best explanation comes
from old school trader Dr. David Paul. The best trades occur after the masses have been stopped
out and that's because the big fellas up there they can't press the wee button and get in because
there's just not enough liquidity there for them to get in in size so they have to in fact engineer
a hundred thousand guys like you sir pull you one way your stop loss gets hit that in fact sets off
a sea of liquidity for them to get in. So yeah these candles they are engineered and that is why
I like to call them manipulation candles and they happen almost daily so that these big players
can get in and out of their trades. So the most important thing to understand
how this quick flip scalper takes advantage of this very phenomenon is that when you see these
candles most of the time the candle is reversed and right there that's the strategy that is the
edge that we will be using. Now if there's any doubt in your mind whether or not the candle you
are looking at is or is not a manipulation candle let me show you a quick and easy way to figure that
out. So what we want to do is to switch to a daily chart of the asset that we are trading
and we're going to add the average true range indicator. You don't have to make any adjustments
to it just use the default settings of 14 days. This indicator will give us a numerical value
in this case for Nasdaq it is 420 points. Let's go ahead and make the math a little bit easier
and write 400 points. What does these 400 points represent? Well they represent the average range
of Nasdaq 100 in the last 14 days so it's either up 400 points or down 400 points on any average
day. So the trading range is one of the most important parameters for us as traders whether
you use this quick flip scalper or not. Here is what we want to determine back on the 15 minute
chart if the size of this candle that we just boxed in is 25 percent or more of that daily
range then it is a manipulation candle. So here's the basic math to figure that out. We take these
400 points right and we multiply it with 25 percent and you will have 100 points. So if the
high of that candle to the low of that candle exceeds 100 points it is in fact a manipulation
candle. So you will see that the very low of this candle is 24 502 points and the very high is
24 675 points and yeah that is well outside the 100 points range so this is definitely a manipulation
candle. So one thing to think about is that if it's at 95 points or 90 points let's say that it's
around 22 23 percent don't sweat the details you can still use it but if it's 25 percent or more
that is a dead giveaway that it's being manipulated. So that wraps up step number two
which also was pretty simple right. Now let's move on to the third and last step which is to
make the perfect entry. This is going to be pretty simple too so here is what we're going to do.
We're going to go back to that 15 minute chart and we're going to move it to a smaller time frame
and that can be the five minute time frame or anything below that. So we can do three minutes,
we can do two minutes and we can even do the one minute time frame. I prefer to use the five minute
because that is what I'm used to and that's what I'm going to use now for the rest of this
demonstration. Now from here what we need which is the most important part of the video we need one
out of two types of candles to appear they need to appear outside the range outside the range that
we boxed in in step one and I say it's the most important part because if none of these candles
appear the price is not ready to be reversed. That movement could actually continue for 20 minutes
30 minutes 40 minutes or an hour or like the rest of the freaking day it can just keep on going and
we want one of these two candles to appear again outside the box range and we want them to appear
within 90 minutes of the market open. So if that doesn't happen the opportunity is lost and we will
not take the trade. If you know about reversal candlesticks if you watch some of my old videos
you already know what the two types of candles are. Two candles that I'm going to be looking for
are going to be either the hammer or the inverted hammer candle or the bullish or bearish engulfing
candle. Here's why these two candles are important and why they must be used in this trade setup.
Let's start with the hammer candle on the long side so this must come after a clear red negative
price movement. The confirmation comes from within the wick itself right here. This wick represents
that the largest buyer took advantage of that liquidity and the institutions bought into that
weakness and I've said in past videos that you have to think about it this way that if someone
with that amount of buying power is going to step in here and buy that dip it's not going to
go lower in most cases and that is where the edge is. They're just too big they are too strong and
they have announced their intentions and most likely the price will go higher from here. Again
not all the time but most of the time it will. The entry is going to be very simple we're going to
wait for the break of the candle and we're going to enter the trade in the opening of the next
candle. So we're going to enter the trade here and the stop loss would be set at the low.
The inverted hammer would be something that comes after a clear positive green movement. You would
have the wick coming from the top again the confirmation comes from within the wick itself
right here. The entry would be at the break of the next five minute candle here and the stop
loss would be put slightly above the high here. Now the engulfing candles have the exact same
significance but they look different. They are called engulfing because this large candle here
fully engulfs the previous smaller candle. For engulfing candles though I like to set the entry
level already at the high of the previous candle. So for the bullish engulfing candle I would set
my long entry already here at the high of this red candle and I would place the stop loss at the low
of the engulfing candle. And for bearish engulfing candles we enter the short trade
already at the low of the previous green candle. So that would be here and we place the stop loss
at the high. So if you didn't follow that don't worry we're going to go through this step by step
now. So let's go ahead and open up the Nasdaq 100 short again. So the day started with this
positive green liquidity candle which means that we are now looking for negative reversals
somewhere above this range. So we're looking for inverted hammers or bearish engulfers above
the boxed range. If today would have been a negative red liquidity candle we would instead
be looking for positive reversal candlesticks like the hammer or the bullish engulfing candle
and we would look for it below the boxed range. So let's see how this day continues. So this is
on the 15 minute chart. We have confirmed that it's a positive liquidity candle and we have drawn
up the box into the future. So we're now going to go into a lower time frame to look for the reversal.
I will use the five minute one. Let's see what happens. We see that the price continues up from
here for a couple of candles. It's not ready to be reversed yet but around here around 45 minutes
after the opening something happens. You should be seeing what I'm seeing now which is a inverted
hammer candlestick. So the entry would be very straightforward. We would enter the trade here
at the break of the next candle. We set the stop above the high and then we set the target profit
at the bottom of the box that we've just drawn. So the box that we drew has another purpose than
just showing where we are looking for the reversals. It actually gives us two irrelevant target profit
levels. One is the high of the opening and the second one is the low of the opening that I just
used. So our trade is set. Let's see how this plays out. By the way I feel like I just have to mention
this. So the win rate is actually higher if you include the 15 minutes prior to the opening. Not
all brokers offer prices outside market hours but if you are interested in that there's a link
to the description to the broker that I use. They are called IG. Just register for a CFD account and
you can get access to these instruments. So for the next minutes we're just messing around this
price level. We're not really going anywhere. We're not hitting the stop loss but then as you
can see the price eventually goes lower and if we go even further we see that we actually reach
the target profit here at the bottom of the range. So it was a successful trade. We entered
the trade at 24,872. We put the stop loss at 24,900. We set the target profit at 24,610.
So the trade had a 28 point stop loss with a 212 points win. So that's pretty good right? And this
isn't cherry picked. If we look back we had this pattern here too. They had a negative red liquidity
open. It reversed down here and then finished higher. The day before that we had a green open
but it reversed and the day before that we had a red open. It reversed and it finished green almost
every time it reverses. So the strategy works great with these liquidity events and they appear
because the big institutions need them to enter and exit their positions. Over 255 years of trading
history and they are everywhere. Now let me show you how to trade this live. It's already 11 am so
I've missed the open but I will be back tomorrow to trade this together with you. Okay good morning
guys it's about 10 minutes until the market opens. Remember the steps we are dialing in the 15 minute
opening range. We are confirming that it's a liquidity candle and we are looking for a
reversal candle outside the range. If we don't get these three things today then I will come back
tomorrow but if you are watching this it means that I kept it and spoiler alert it means that
it is happening today. I forgot to mention this yesterday but these liquidity events are often
more prominent in individual stocks than in these big indexes. The indexes often has more
base liquidity which means that these manipulation candles are sometimes not needed to the same
extent for these big institutions but as I showed you yesterday they are there in the big indexes
too. With that said I'm going to trade this today on an individual stock instead to show you that
the quick flip scalper works very well on that too possibly even better and I think I will do it
with the highest volume stock these days which is Nvidia. So the market opens in about two minutes.
Let's start by finding out what the average true range is. So I'm going to pull up the daily chart
I'm going to add the average true range indicator. The average true range is 8.07 bucks
so I will write that down.
Let's go back to the 15 minute time frame. Now the market opens in a couple of seconds
and here we go. So okay it's opening with a small gap upwards and now it's moving south.
Remember we are waiting for the candlestick to close before we can confirm that it's a
liquidity candle and for it to be a liquidity candle it has to be 25% or more of the average
true range of the last 14 days. While we wait for the 15 minute candle to close we could actually
already now calculate what that is. Average true range was 8.07 bucks to make it easier let's say
8 bucks and 25% of that is 2 bucks so that means that if this candle will close with a range that
is more than 2 bucks then it is a liquidity candle. Okay so now it's 30 seconds until this
15 minute candle closes. It's not a perfect looking liquidity candle as we have this
this wick here but I think it's good enough. Preferably we wouldn't have it but I think it's
okay. The range is clearly exceeding 2 bucks though it's closer to 5 or even 6 bucks and there
it's closed so it's confirmed that it's a liquidity candle. Okay so now let's take the box drawing tool
let's connect the highest price point and the lowest price point and then we extend it into
the future and I'm only extending it for 75 minutes from here because after that we don't
want to enter the trade so any reversal after these 90 minutes are irrelevant. We only enter
trades within the first 90 minutes of the market open so the low is at 176 and the high is at 182.
Okay so that's the first two steps there is only one step left and that is to find the
reversal. Okay so this 15 minute opening range that we just made a box out of
will be of big significance for the rest of the day. Now the only remaining thing the last and
third step is to wait for the reversal candle outside of this range. As this liquidity candle
was negative we are looking for one of the two bullish reversal candlesticks at any place
below this range and if you remember we do that on a lower time frame so I'm changing the chart
down to a five minute time frame and now we just wait so if we don't get this reversal candlestick
within 90 minutes then we don't trade it we will get another chance tomorrow. So there's nothing
to do but to continue waiting so some buyers are getting in here but not yet a full reversal. I
think there are still some big players that are going to get in here so I suspect we might go
even lower. Okay here's another hammer candle but again the hammer is inside the range
which makes it invalid. We want to see a hammer candle or a bullish engulfing candle
after a strong clear downward movement and below the range. Okay we continue down from here
that's a big red candle and we're now actually outside the range and another big candle.
If we would get some kind of reversal pattern here down below the range then that's the time
to enter the trade. Okay so look at that we have a strong green candle here that could become a
engulfing candle but I'm going to place my limit order entry level here at the high of the red
candle at 175.15. So if the price goes up to this level it is in fact a bullish engulfing
candlestick so that's where we want to enter the trade. So let's see the price is still going up
let's see what happens. Okay we got it we're now in the trade I will put the stop loss down here
below the low at 172.5 and I will put the target profit at the top of this range
which is at 182.3. So that makes the stop loss around 2.65 bucks the target profit is seven
bucks so that is a risk reward ratio of 2.7 or something like that. So let's see if this
reversal holds true there are no guarantees in trading there are just probabilities and this
trade has a high probability of profit so let's see where it goes. So it's continuing upwards
actually it's still strong we have a little bit of a hesitation here still a long way to the stop
loss though. I think this looks pretty good I think we have some good chances to see this
trade go through today. Okay look at that price is now back in the range and that's promising
okay so it's continuing up. Now we've been going sideways for a while and at this point I would
consider just stopping the trade and taking the win and call it a day as we're so close to the
target profit already but just for the sake of the video I'm going to stay in the trade and I'm
going to see what happens but I'm actually going to move the stop loss to the bottom of the range
here at 176 so that we are at least in the money. Okay so now we got our target profit and to be
honest I was zoning out for a while the time is now 1 45 pm and made a great trade this trade
admittedly is a little bit longer than usual normally you're in and out from the trade a lot
faster. Okay guys that's going to conclude today's video I hope you found value in this quick flip
scalper strategy and if you're interested I have another one candle streak strategy that is very
effective but still super simple if you are interested in that give this video a thumbs up
let me know in the comments and I can make a video for that one too and I want to end with one
reminder that is that historic results are no guarantee for future results so even though this
edge has been proven to be effective over many decades it might stop working and also although
very strong on most markets this edge definitely works better with some markets and worse than
others so please evaluate the edge regularly and as always take care trade well thank you guys
for watching I will talk to you again soon bye
